Chapter 1. Generalidades
1.1. Background
Breast cancer is a major cause of death in Tabasco and Mexico. It is a second cause of death for women aged 30-54. While this is a public health problem, a way to decrease the number of deaths is by improving the detection of cancer. The most common way to detect it is through the study of mammograms. This is not an easy task, there is a margin of error in the opinion of the radiologists.
In turn, it is possible to increase the success of diagnoses using CAD systems: Computer Aided-Detection (CADs) or Computer Aided-diagnosis (CADx), that kind of systems assist doctors in the interpretation of mammograms. CAD systems are built with artificial intelligence, digital image processing, and pattern recognition.
An important step in building such systems is the creation of databases of medical images. Most of the mammographic databases are not publicly available, however, there are several databases of this type. There are two databases of mammograms of public domain: the USF (University of South Florida) database is a Digital Database for Screening Mammography (DDSM) [1] and the MIAS MiniMammographic Database (mini-MIAS) [2]. Both of them are widely used by the mammographic image analysis research community.
Our main goal is to create a database similar to the above. 
Our project was supported by “Dr. Juan Graham Casasus” hospital who gave us a batch of raw mammograms in DICOM file format [3].  especificar, el problema DEL hospitlal --diagnóstico-- segunda opinión, decir que no se ha implementado algo así, pero que existe
 


….... info on what to look at for image treatment 


La introducción de [15] da una explicación buena de por qué son buenos los sistemas CAD.




1.2. Problem
1.2.1. Problem statement


It was necessary to discover which filters are the best choice in order to obtain optimized images ready for afterward phases such as segmentation, processing or analysis. Namely, it was necessary to reduce the noise and other artifacts in the image. Furthermore, we need to create an electronic file for each image. These data are obtained from each DICOM file and with the help of specialized doctors.
The most important data is the medical mammogram diagnosis. Mammograms are classified according to the American College of Radiology (ACR) in BI-RADS. Mammography Atlas, edition 4th [4].
The assessment categories are:
a. Mammographic assessment incomplete:
1. Category 0: Need additional imaging evaluation and/or prior mammograms for comparison.
b. Mammographic assessment complete:
1. Category 1: Negative.
2. Category 2: Benign finding(s).
3. Category 3: Probably benign finding.
4. Category 4: Suspicious abnormality.
5. Category 5: Highly suggestive of malignancy.         
6. Category 6: Proven malignancy.
1.2.2. Delimitation of the investigation
1.2.2.1. Scope


decir que hay un estado inicial y uno final
la extensión del trabajo incluye --- filtros y tipos de filtros aplicados, imágenes listas para etapas posteriores. 
hablar de base de datos más como un dataset que otra cosa --- estructura: imagen cruda, procesada y ficha


a database of preprocessed mammograms, namely, mammograms without noise, reduction of artifacts and leveling of image quality.
1.2.2.2. Limitations
1. We applied combinations of 4 or 5 filters by image.
2. We only applied filters in the transform domain.
3. No se utilizarán clasificadores para evaluar l
1.2.3. Research questions
1. What is the best combination of filters?
1.3. Objectives
1.3.1. General objective
To create a data set with preprocessed mammograms with filters in the spatial or spectral transform domain.
1.3.2. Specific objectives
1. To create an electronic file for each image.
2. To store the mammograms in a database oriented to storage and retrieval of images.
3. To create an online database of domain public.
4. To find what are the more suitable filters in the treatment of the image.
1.4. Justification
Our project is useful for the scientific community dedicated to processing and image analysis, mainly those who are dedicated to the study of medical images. As mention before our project could be a first step in creating a CAD system. In the long term, the creation of this database would benefit the Mexican radiologists. It will improve the state of the art medical image processing in the country.
1.5. Methodology
We choosed a factorial design of experiments as a methodology.
x experimental and processing parameters were chosen to be analysed in this research:
1. Variable A: Operator in a filter X 
2. Variable B: Operator in a filter X
3. Variable C: Operator in a filter X
Process of image preprocessing applied to our research:
1. Image digitalisation        
2. Image enhancing by filtering
3. Evaluation with both histogramas and medical opinion.
4. Presentation of the results




________________


Chapter 2. Theoretical framework


2.1. Frame of reference
The pre-processing step serves to improve the processing with other filters like “segmentation”, 


best techniques for enhancement of X-ray image may not be best for enhancement for microscopic images. [6]


The enhancement methods can broadly be divided into the following two categories: Spatial Domain Methods (SDM) and Frequency Domain Methods (FDM). Spatial domain methods which are operate directly on pixels. Frequency domain which operates on the Fourier transform of an image. [6]


Many studies show that the histogram equalization is an effective method for improving the quality of medical images. [6, 8]. 


Bith depths
12-bit image (4096 levels of gray) displayed with 16 allocated bits appears dark. This happens because the maximal possible amplitude of 12-bit image for each pixel is 4095 and the maximal amplitude that can be displayed is 65535 (16 allocated bits). Therefore, 4096 levels need to be linearly scaled to 65536 levels to achieve good image displaying [8].


2.2. Conceptual framework


Digital image is a binary representation ...
Pixel
Histograms are frequency distributions, and histograms of images describe the frequency of the intensity values that occur in an image [9]. Image histogram offers a graphical representation of the tonal distribution of values in a digital image [10].
Color model
Grayscale
Image processing
Medical image processing
DICOM
***
Different kind of medical images
Las consideraciones técnicas (físicas) de cómo se obtienen los mamogramas están fuera del alcance de este trabajo. In screening mammography, as practiced in USA, (also in Mexico), two x-ray images of each breast, in the medio lateral oblique and craniocaudal views, are acquired. 
MRI
CT
X-ray:
Mammography is radiographic examination that is designed for detecting breast pathology, particularly breast cancer. [11]
***
Mammographic features characteristic of breast cancer are masses, particularly ones with irregular or “spiculated” margins; clusters of microcalcifications (tiny deposits of calcium); and architectural distortions of breast structures. 
***
Noise: 
Nuclear images are generally the most noisy. Noise is also significant in MRI, CT, and ultrasound imaging. In comparison to these, radiography produces images with the least noise. 
The noise can cover and reduce the visibility of certain features within the image. The loss of visibility is especially significant for low-contrast objects.
***


Noise in digital mammographies (Practical digital mammography by Beverly Hashimoto)
De acuerdo a Hachimoto en las imágenes mamográficas tenemos cuatro tipos de ruido:
*quantum
*fixed electronic
*señales secundarías
*quanta secundario indirecto


Mamogramas
Un mamograma típicamente tiene de 12 a 16 bits de profundidad, con una resolución de 4000x5000 pixeles [13], [14].  




2.3. Technological framework


* Recordar escribir que en las primeras pruebas sólo se mejoró  la visualización del tejido graso y no del tejido mamario.


* Recordar escribir sobre (general purpose computers)


* Unsharp - masking to reduce noise.


Libros que ayudarán con los conceptos teóricos:


Formación física de las imágenes
Algoritmos
Tipos de ruido


Características del banco de datos (comparación con otros datasets)


Las imágenes tienen los siguentes datos:


Juan Graham Casasús dataset
	USF dataset
	MIAS dataset
	

	

	Character of background tissue
	* Se tiene información parcial
	

	Class of abnormality
	

	

	Severity of abnormality
	Pendiente
	

	Coordinates of the abnormality
	Fecha del estudio
	

	

	Fecha de nacimiento del paciente
	

	

	Sexo del paciente
	

	

	Tamaño
	

	

	Valor BIRADS
	

	

	

	Resolución ¿bits?
	

	¿Siemens?
	Digitalizer
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

El dataset de USF tiene las cuatro vistas standard: MLO … a diferencia del dataset MIAS que sólo tiene las vistas ¿laterales?
Practical digital mammography by Beverly Hashimoto
Digital Mammography by Ulrich Bick, Felix Diekmann


Trabajo futuro


El rango de aplicaciones médicas es amplio. El dataset está listo para usarse en etapas posteriores o ampliar la etapa de procesamiento.


Es posible crear un servicio web [referencia] que recupere las imágenes de forma efectiva (selección de casos), con una interfaz web responsiva. Previsualización. de estos casos.


Rescaling. Pasar de una resolución a otra sin problemas.


Preprocesamiento: eliminar el pectoral en las imágenes ¿cranio caudal?
Hacer que las imágenes queden en una sola dirección.






[1] The digital database for screening mammography
[2] The Mammographic Image Analysis Society Digital Mammogram Database.
[3]
[4]
[5] Pre-processing for Segmentation of Computer Tomography Images
[6] A Comparative study of Image Enhancement using Histogram Approach
[7] Mammographic image enhancement using wavelet-based processing and histogram equalization
[8] Efficient Presentation of DICOM Mammography Images using Matlab
[9] Image Processing with ImageJ
[10] Histogram equalization, Freescale
[11] The Essential Physics of Medical Images
[12] Digital Mammography By Ulrich Bick, Felix Diekmann <Explica la ecualización de histogramas, también explica el método ‘unsharp masking’>
[13] Mammogram image size reduction using bit conversion
[14] Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM): A Practical Introduction and Survival Guide
[15] Efficient Pre-processing of USF and MIAS Mammogram Images


[a]


[b]
[a]Juana canul reich:
Omar, vas a escribir la tesis en ingles?


Me parece que debe ser escrita en español, es así?
[b]Juana canul reich:
va bien el documento, solo que necesito saber si es español o ingles?


Ahora que nos reunamos, les notificare para el viernes a las 9 a.m.. hablaremos sobre escribir un articulo sobre el procesamiento que están haciendo con las imágenes. Hay que hacer 1, o hasta 3, para hablar de su tratamiento. Si hay alguna conferencia que sea de su interés para el articulo, la checamos..


Pero de que hay que hacerlo, de hecho si,.....